ECR (Elastic Container Registry)

Amazon Elastic Container Registry is a fully managed Docker container
registry provided by Amazon Web Services.

It is used to store, manage, and deploy Docker container images, 
making it easier to work with containerized applications in a cloud environment.

Key features:
Private repositories: Securely store container images
AWS integration: Works seamlessly with ECS and EKS
Faster image pulls: Images hosted within AWS are pulled faster than external registries like Docker Hub when used inside AWS infrastructure
Scalability: Automatically handles storage growth and image management
Typical ECR Workflow
Create a new ECR repository
Install AWS CLI locally

Configure credentials:
aws configure

(use access key and secret with limited permissions, not full access)

Authenticate Docker with ECR:
aws ecr get-login-password | docker login

Build Docker image:
docker build -t app_name .

Tag image for ECR:
docker tag app_name:latest <account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/app_name

Push image:
docker push <account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/app_name

Now the image is stored in ECR and ready for deployment.

ECS (Elastic Container Service)
Amazon Elastic Container Service is a fully managed container 
orchestration service.

It allows you to run, manage, and scale Docker containers without 
manually handling infrastructure.

Core Concepts in ECS
Cluster
A cluster is a logical grouping of compute resources where containers 
run.

Two types:

EC2 Cluster:
Uses EC2 instances as underlying servers
Fargate Cluster:
Serverless—AWS manages infrastructure completely
Task Definition

A task definition is a blueprint for your application. It specifies:
Docker image (from ECR)
CPU and memory requirements
Port mappings
Environment variables

Task
A task is a running instance of a task definition.
It is the smallest unit of execution in ECS.

Service
A service is a higher-level abstraction that manages tasks.

It ensures:
A specified number of tasks are always running
Failed tasks are automatically replaced
Tasks scale up or down based on demand
ECS Architecture (End-to-End Flow)
Docker image is pushed to ECR
ECS pulls the image from ECR
A task definition specifies how to run the container
A service ensures required number of tasks are running
Tasks run inside a cluster (EC2 or Fargate)
Fargate (Serverless Containers)

AWS Fargate allows running containers without managing servers.

Instead of provisioning EC2 instances:
You define CPU and memory
AWS handles infrastructure, scaling, and provisioning
Scaling in ECS

ECS supports automatic scaling:
Increase number of tasks when traffic increases
Decrease when demand drops

This ensures efficient resource usage and high availability.

Integration with Other AWS Services

ECS integrates with:
Elastic Load Balancer (ELB): Distributes incoming traffic
IAM: Controls permissions securely
CloudWatch: Monitors logs and metrics
Load Balancing and Traffic Flow

A load balancer sits in front of ECS services:
Listens on port 80 (HTTP) or 443 (HTTPS)
Routes traffic to running tasks

This ensures:
High availability
Fault tolerance
Even traffic distribution
SSL and Domain Setup

To enable HTTPS:
Use AWS Certificate Manager to request an SSL certificate
Validate domain ownership (via DNS records)
Attach certificate to load balancer

Important:

Load balancer should expose:
Port 80 (HTTP)
Port 443 (HTTPS)
Putting It All Together (Full Flow)
Build Docker image locally
Push image to ECR
Create ECS cluster (EC2 or Fargate)
Define task definition (image + config)
Create service (maintains tasks)
Attach load balancer
Configure domain + SSL
Users access app via domain → load balancer → ECS tasks
